
Martin Walsh
                                                                                                             Evanston, IL 60202
Linux System Administrator                                                                                    mwalsh@mwalsh.org
                Objective

Seeking a challenging, and multifaceted, system administration position requiring the creative application of
open source technology.

                Professional Experience
 2005--Present System Administrator, Parity Systems, Evanston, Illinois.
                Responsible for the installation, maintenance and documentation of all hardware and network
                services for use by internal staff and clients. Closely supported the development efforts of all web
                projects; configuring, deploying, and securing hosting environments/web stack.
                Notable achievements:
                * Implemented a comprehensive network monitoring and performance graphing solution (nagios,
                   Python/Jython, Java, rrdtool).
                   - Programmed more than 20 custom checks for unusual hardware and services.
                   - Created a utility framework for rapid development of new service checks.
                * Developed a 1-wire based server room, climate sensor network and monitoring solution for less
                   than $100 (owfs, nagios, Python).
                * Evaluated several free and/or open source virtualization management technologies (VMware-
                   server, ESXi, KVM/libvirt, oVirt, ganeti, Proxmox)
                * Assembled a Debian-based USB/LiveDVD disaster recovery environment (dnsmasq, pxe,
                   clonezilla, dokuwiki, subversion, puppet).
                * Built an OpenOffice.org/LibreOffice headless Live CD-ROM image to provide scalable ODT
                   to PDF conversion services to internally hosted Java web applications (BartPE, LibreOffice,
                   OOoServer, KVM/Proxmox).

    2000--2005 IT Manager, RS Industrial, Buford, Georgia.
                Provided corporate leadership and manpower for all IT initiatives.
                Notable achievements:
                * Supervised the development of, both industrial and retail, e-commerce websites (Java, Apache
                   Tomcat, Python, Zope).
                   - Contributed Java code to integrate with credit card, payment gateway service.
                   - Developed a custom Zope "Product" to facilitate content updates by non-techincal staff.
                * Cooperated in planning and oversight of the construction of a second building/location, including
                   the design and installation of combined network.
                * Designed and developed automated reports based on sales and inventory data.
                * Researched, recommended and purchased new technology for the entire organization.

                Key Skills
      Systems Linux (Debian, RHEL), Windows (all variants), iSeries AS/400, OpenBSD, Solaris
     Network Apache, Apache Tomcat, ActiveMQ, Postfix, Sendmail, Courier, Dovecot, OpenVPN,
                OpenSSH, Samba, OpenLDAP, BIND, ISC DHCP, CUPS, netfilter/iptables, pf, OSSEC
    Databases PostgreSQL, MySQL, CouchDB/Couchbase, OS/400 DB2
   Languages Python, bash (fluent), Java, Ruby, PHP (moderate), Perl, C (novice)


                                                                                                                   Martin Walsh
                                                                                                             Evanston, IL 60202
                                                                                                                                                                                          mwalsh@mwalsh.org
Hiring Manager April 5, 2012

Dear Sir or Madam,

With 12 years of experience, I am at ease managing a diverse network of computer systems and associated
services. Although my most recent work experience is decidedly web-centered, I believe that my unique
skillset supports an efficient transition into almost any business context.
Throughout my career, I have worked in relatively small environments with a high degree of responsibility
as the sole system administrator; necessitating a great deal of flexability, and effective interpersonal,
communication and organizational skills. Consequently, I am comfortable working with all levels of staff,
regardless of technical proficiency, and I quickly build a reputation for getting things done.
I am passionate about solving problems, particularly those well suited to automation. I enjoy digging into a
difficult technical challenge, recognizing that it often requires learning a new skill, concept or technique,
and ultimately results in helping someone in a tangible way.
Sincerely,

Martin Walsh


















Enclosure: Resume


