
Martin Walsh
                                                                                                              Evanston, IL 60202
Linux System Administrator                                                                                    sysadm@mwalsh.org
                Objective

Seeking a challenging, and multifaceted, system administration position requiring the creative application of
open source technology.
                Professional Experience
 2005--Present System Administrator, Parity Systems, Evanston, Illinois.
                Responsible for the installation, maintenance and documentation of all hardware and network ser-
                vices for use by internal staff and clients. Closely supported the development efforts of all web
                projects; configuring, deploying, and securing hosting environments/web stack.
                Notable achievements:
                * Implemented a comprehensive network monitoring and performance graphing solution (nagios,
                   Python/Jython, Java, rrdtool).
                   - Programmed more than 20 custom checks for unusual hardware and services.
                   - Created a utility framework for rapid development of new service checks.
                * Developed a 1-wire based server room, climate sensor network and monitoring solution for less
                   than $100 (owfs, nagios, Python).
                * Evaluated several free and/or open source virtualization management technologies (VMware-
                   server, ESXi, KVM/libvirt, Proxmox, etc.)
                * Assembled a Debian-based USB/LiveDVD disaster recovery environment (dnsmasq, pxe,
                   clonezilla, dokuwiki, subversion, puppet).
                * Built an OpenOffice.org/LibreOffice headless Live CD-ROM image to provide scalable ODT
                   to PDF conversion services to internally hosted Java web applications (BartPE, LibreOffice,
                   OOoServer, KVM/Proxmox).
    2000--2005 IT Manager, RS Industrial, Buford, Georgia.
                Provided corporate leadership and manpower for all IT initiatives.
                Notable achievements:
                * Supervised the development of, both industrial and retail, e-commerce websites (Java, Apache
                   Tomcat, Python, Zope).
                   - Contributed Java code to integrate with credit card, payment gateway service.
                   - Developed a custom Zope "Product" to facilitate content updates by non-techincal staff.
                * Cooperated in planning and oversight of the construction of a second building/location, including
                   the design and installation of combined network.
                * Designed and developed automated reports based on sales and inventory data (MS Excel/VBA,
                   MS SQL Server, Python).
                * Implemented a voice call notification system (nagios, festival, Python, xmlrpclib, pyserial, Hayes
                   command set)
                * Researched, recommended and purchased new technology for the entire organization.

                Key Skills
      Systems Linux (Debian, RHEL), Windows (all variants), iSeries AS/400, OpenBSD, Solaris
     Network Apache, Apache Tomcat, ActiveMQ, Postfix, Sendmail, Courier, Dovecot, OpenVPN,
                OpenSSH, Samba, OpenLDAP, BIND, ISC DHCP, CUPS, netfilter/iptables, pf, OSSEC
    Databases PostgreSQL, MySQL, CouchDB/Couchbase, OS/400 DB2
   Languages Python (fluent), bash, Java, Ruby, PHP (moderate), Perl, C (novice)


                                                                                                                      Martin Walsh
                                                                                                                 Evanston, IL 60202
                                                                                                                                                                                              sysadm@mwalsh.org
Hiring Manager May 1, 2012

Dear Sir or Madam,

Please forgive the form letter. If you are a hiring manager or recruiter seeking a talented System
Administrator, to fill a position in your organization, I suggest you contact me directly to discuss my
qualifications in greater detail.

Experienced Linux System Administrator
With 12 years of experience, I am at ease managing a diverse network of computer systems and associated
services. My most recent work experience is decidedly web-centered, but I believe that my unique skillset
supports an efficient transition into almost any business context.
Versatile, Amiable and Professional
Throughout my career, I have worked in relatively small environments with a high degree of responsibility,
as the sole system administrator; necessitating a great deal of flexibility, and effective interpersonal,
communication and organizational skills. Consequently, I am comfortable working with all levels of staff,
regardless of technical proficiency, and I quickly build a reputation for getting things done.

Open Source Technologist
I have extensive experience utilizing Linux and other open source software to provide versatile and
innovative solutions, and I am passionate about solving problems, particularly those well suited to
automation. Although, I enjoy digging into all kinds of difficult technical challenges, recognizing that they
often require learning a new skill, concept or technique; and providing a solution, means helping someone
in a tangible way.

Thank you for taking the time to review my enclosed resume. Should you have any questions, please
contact me at the email address provided.
Sincerely,


Martin Walsh





Enclosure: resume


